## Data Policies

The Quartet Multi-omics reference materials and raw datasets are publicly available and accessible. Researchers are encouraged to access and analyze the datasets. The recipients of the Reference Materials are highly encouraged to share their data with Fudan University through the Quartet Data Portal in order for us to improve the reference datasets and to better serve the community.

## What multi-omics data do we provide?

### Genomics

Quartet DNA reference materials have been extensively sequenced by short-read and long-read technologies. Short-read WGS datasets were generated with depth ranging from 30-60, by employing PCR-free and PCR libraries on multiple short-read sequencing platforms, including Illumina Hiseq XTen, Illumina Novaseq, MGISEQ-2000 and DNBSEQ-T7. We have sequenced 180 WGS libraries, 248 WES libraries in total. Long-read sequencing datasets have been generated using 10X genomics, Oxford Nanopore Technologies, BioNano Genomics, and Pacific Biosciences Sequel and Sequel II with CLR and CCS HiFi modes. 

### Transcriptomics

RNA-seq datasets from reference materials were then obtained, consisting of 252 RNA-seq libraries from 21 batches which were generated by eight laboratories using two library construction protocols (poly(A) selection and rRNA depletion) and two sequencing platforms (Illumina NovaSeq and BGI DNBseq). Here, a batch of RNA-seq experiments was defined as libraries from a standard sample set, consisting of 12 tubes with each representing one of the triplicates of the four RNA reference sample groups, which were conducted library construction and sequencing experiments concurrently. 

### Proteomics
Currently we sent 6 units of Quartet Protein Reference Materials to 6 labs, in which 6 batches of raw datasets and profiled datasets were generated in their inhouse LC-MS/MS systems by labelfree quantitation (both DDA and DIA). Our Cooperators also extracted human proteins (labeled as "Lot1" in our metadata) from the immortalized B-lymphoblastoid cell lines and have generated 26 batches of DDA-based profiled datasets since 2017.

### Metabolomics
We dispensed three biological replicates of each unit of the Quartet Metabolite Reference Materials to six laboratory platforms of five companies. These six laboratories produced a total of 204 metabolic quantitative profiles in 17 datasets (batches) using targeted or untargeted metabolomics strategies. Furthermore, based on the large amount of copies of Quartet metabolite reference materials, we regularly generated targeted metabolomics data with three technical replicates for each unit of the Quartet Metabolite Reference Materials for up to one year in Metabo-Profile (L4). 